---
title: Home
description: Overview of the TPM 2026 workshop.
---

Safety-critical and trustworthy applications of AI and ML systems require causal reasoning under uncertainty. For instance, making diagnoses in healthcare should not be based on spurious correlations, as they can be brittle to distributional shifts. Equally important is the need for certified fairness, robustness and privacy in modern ML systems. Remarkably, all of these desiderata can be achieved with some tractable probabilistic modeling (TPM). TPM is a consolidated field which offers reliable, efficient and flexible inference through either exact or approximated methods with guarantees. That is, they are designed for safety-critical scenarios that require guarantees in the presence of uncertainty. Hence, TPMs are actively studied in a variety of domains such as logical reasoning, tensor factorizations, causal inference, and more. These domains offer a wide variety of techniques including models with tractable likelihoods (for example, normalizing flows and autoregressive models), tractable marginals (for example, bounded-treewidth models and determinantal point processes), and more complex tractable reasoning tasks (for example, probabilistic and logic circuits, and tensor networks).

This new edition of TPM builds on the expanding reach of tractable probabilistic models, highlighting recent connections to tensor factorizations and causality and fostering an interchange of ideas between these communities. We welcome contributions on all the TPM spectrum and hope to bring many communities together to help them advance their respective research fields.
